let's now speak to Harry foret he's
joining us live now from our London
Bureau Harry first of all we're hearing
that the EU has frozen Aid to the
Palestinians what does this
mean well it means an immediate end to
one of the major sources of funding for
uh Palestinian uh institutions for the
Palestinian Authority in the occupied
West Bank as well it's come from the
head of EU enlargement at the European
commission Oliver veli uh he said the
scale of Terror and brutality against
Israel and its people is a turning point
and so we're talking about $728 Million
worth of Aid that is immediately Frozen
now this is money that goes uh some of
it to Gaza the The Lion Share to the
occupied West Bank uh it goes a
significant proportion to the unra
organization the United Nations relief
and works Agency for Palestinian
refugees uh which looks after education
for uh many children among other things
now uh the Israelis have long complained
about some of the syllabus content of
some of those schools and so there is
some reference I think to that point
later in his statement that he made on X
formerly Twitter saying that the
foundations for peace tolerance and
coexistence must now be addressed
incitement to hatred violence and
glorification of Terror have poisoned
the minds of too many he says uh that
been some push back uh under that
Twitter comment that ex comment uh with
people talking about Collective
punishment because of course the attacks
that were carried out on Saturday were
carried out by the fighters of Hamas uh
fat which is in charge of the
Palestinian Authority is a rival faction
of course um and as well as this from
the EU in terms of its uh sort of global
Aid to the Palestinians there are also
bilateral deals between member countries
of the EU
and Palestinian institutions Germany
announcing that it is also uh putting an
a temporary end to those as well it is
suspending them uh the minister in
charge said that she wouldn't talk about
freezing them but it was reviewing them
and a temporarily suspended them that's
a a total over the this year and the
next year of some
$264 million and Austria has done the
same thing as well about $20 million
worth of Aid in that case the foreign
minister of Austria also saying the
extent of the terror is so horrific that
we can't go back to business as usual
and Harry just on another note we're
seeing a lot of disruption to
international travel what's happening as
far as you're aware on that
front yes well a number of uh United
States Airlines had over the weekend
announced that they were uh suspending
their flights to and from benan airport
the Tel Aviv airport uh the United
Airlines American airlin
Delta as well and more airlines are
being added to that list Air France
Emirates LT hanser there have been
disruptions and changes to the schedule
for Virgin out of London British Airways
is maintaining its service but is
changing uh its schedule to earlier
flights saying it is keeping uh its
flights under review other airlines as
well have suspended or at least
cancelled flights so this isn't
obviously just about tourism it's also
about isra citizens and indeed a number
of Palestinians who have dual
nationality uh many of whom especially
recently for the Palestinians had been
using the airport in Tel Aviv because of
a new US Visa waiver program which
presumably is going to be very seriously
affected by what's going on uh and a lot
of Israelis have dual nationality as
well so this is a major disruption to a
large number of people who who have
family and sort of alternative bases uh
from which they May well find it much
more difficult to get to and
from okay Harry thanks very much indeed
for bringing us the latest there from
London